[Music]
good morning watching breakfast with
sally nugent and dan walker our
headlines for you today
what caused the coronavirus outbreak a
long-awaited report from the world
health organization is published today
as world leaders call for an
international treaty to deal with future
pandemics
lawyers set out their opening arguments
on the first day of the trial of a
police officer accused of the murder of
george floyd
good morning are we set for a bumper
delivery for deliveroo
shares in the takeaway delivery firm are
up for grabs for the first time but some
investors are spooked by a row over
workers rights
what does it tell us about future ways
of working
we don't want you to get sick we don't
want you to die
and when your turn comes take
the jab dozens of high-profile stars
join a campaign by solani henry
urging people from black communities to
get the covert vaccine
good morning one of the premier league's
greatest strikers sergio aguero
manchester city's record goal scorer
will leave the club
at the end of the season but wants to
win more titles before he goes
hello the pandemic has seen a huge
increase in the number of people wanting
to move to the countryside
and to the coast so we're in cornwall to
find out what's going on
good morning further heavy rain today
across the north and west of scotland
and gusty winds as well
for the rest of us variable amounts of
cloud and some very warm sunshine
across england and wales i'll have more
details
in about 10 minutes
[Music]
good morning it's tuesday the 30th of
march our top story
covered 19 is likely to have been passed
to humans from bats
through another animal that's according
to a long-awaited report from the world
health organization into how the
pandemic started
the study which has been seen by the bbc
ahead of its publication this afternoon
also dismisses claims that the virus
escaped from a laboratory
in china as extremely unlikely aruna
ayenga has more
can you find the origins of the
coronavirus this eagerly awaited report
has faced setbacks and diplomatic
wrangling
experts from the who had trouble even
getting into wuhan the city at the
center of the initial outbreak of
covid19
investigations finally started in
january this year
more than a year after the first cases
emerged
key findings of the experts report are
that covid19
pass from bats through an intermediary
animal to humans
but it doesn't offer definitive answers
on the mystery at the very heart of the
pandemic
how the virus first jumped to humans and
the theory that the virus was released
via a laboratory incident in china
is considered extremely unlikely of
course i will have
more to say following further
review and understanding of the report
but
for now all hypotheses
will be on the table and will need
further study
although the wuhan food market was
initially thought to be where the
outbreak began
wha and chinese scientists found
evidence that the virus could have been
circulating for some weeks
before december 2019 and some of those
infected had no connection with the
market
it comes as the prime minister boris
johnson joins a group of more than 20
world leaders calling for a new
international treaty
to help the world deal with future
pandemics they say coronavirus has posed
the biggest challenge to the global
community since the 1940s
and countries must be better prepared in
the future
the kovid 19 pandemic has killed almost
2.8 million people worldwide
it's hoped the report's findings will
give some clearer answers
on how the virus came about aruna aienga
bbc news
now another pandemic or health crisis is
a matter of
not if but when that's the warning from
a group of more than 20 world leaders
boris johnson emmanuel macron and
germany's chancellor
angela merkel are among those calling
for a new international treaty to deal
with future outbreaks and ensure
universal and equal access
to medicine and vaccines
in the united states witnesses have
given powerful testimonies of the final
moments of the life of george floyd
on the opening day of the trial of a
former police officer accused of his
murder
prosecutors showed the jury video
footage of derek chauvin
kneeling on mr floyd's neck for more
than nine
minutes he denies the charges against
him our correspondent labor dissector
sent this report from minneapolis
yes i'll say i do thank you you may be
seated
derek chauvin facing a jury of his peers
the central question for both sides in
this case what
caused george floyd's death we're going
to ask that you find him guilty the
prosecution says it was chauvin
kneeling on his neck for nine minutes
and 29
seconds on may 25th of 2020
mr derek chavin betrayed this badge
when he used excessive and unreasonable
force
upon the body of mr george floyd
council mr chauvin the defense argued
that the officers were facing an
increasingly hostile crowd
distracting them from mr floyd's care
his death they said was the result of
drug use
and poor health the evidence will show
that mr floyd died of a cardiac
arrhythmia
that occurred as a result of
hypertension as coronary disease
the ingestion of methamphetamine and
fentanyl
and the adrenaline throwing flowing
through his body
all of which acted to further compromise
an already compromised heart among the
opening days witnesses a 9-1-1 dispatch
worker
who was watching the arrest via a police
camera
she was so alarmed by what she saw that
she rang the officer's supervisor
this is the most high-profile police
brutality case
to be tried in the u.s for decades race
isn't being mentioned in court
but its significance is inescapable
people across this country and the world
are watching what happens here closely
le mbc news
minneapolis well labour joins us now
from outside the courtroom in
minneapolis
uh take us through the events so far
then
well we heard the defense and the
prosecution set out their
cases in the opening statements and with
the three witnesses that we saw
take take the witness stand yesterday
the continuation of the last witness
that martial arts
expert is likely to be what kicks off
proceedings
in the morning but it was interesting
seeing the two sides set out their case
the
prosecution began by saying they wanted
jurors to remember the numbers
nine to nine that is the number of
minutes
at nine minutes 29 seconds that's the
time that they say
derek chauvin was on george floyd's neck
and they started out by playing very
early the full video
that we saw going around the world many
of the jurors hadn't actually seen that
video
and even for people that had with was
quite a shocking
reminder the prosecutor's saying you can
believe
your eyes basically saying whatever the
defense say
believe what you're saying here as the
cause of
death the defense obviously arguing that
we don't know the cause of death
as i mentioned in my report there are
several other underlying factors that
they argue were at play and they also
mentioned the fact that there were other
pieces of evidence it's not just about
the amount of
time that the encounter took they
mentioned 50
000 pieces of evidence that have to be
gone
through and they asked the jury to bear
that in mind and that their
client they say was just following his
training
baby thank you very much for the very
latest there and that's something we'll
continue to follow
over the course of the trial which
should take at least a few weeks
now a new finger prick blood test that
can detect antibodies to the coronavirus
is to be used to track the impact of the
vaccination program across the uk
the office for national statistics will
also be able to use the data gathered
from around 150
000 volunteers to determine how
resistant
existing vaccines are against emerging
strains of the virus
it's enabling us to do things faster
it's enabling
to do things at greater scale um and
it's enabling us
really to be able to make sure that
no areas of the population are invisible
we've got
estimates right across our population
solani henry has written an open letter
urging black british people to get the
kovit 19 jab
it's a letter signed by celebrities like
the actor david harwood and reverend
rose hudson wilkin he acknowledges what
he describes as
legitimate concerns but says it's time
people trusted doctors and scientists
involved
in the development of the vaccine don't
let your concerns be the thing that
widens racial inequality in our society
don't let coronavirus cost even more
black lives
because we matter we love you
we don't want you to get sick we don't
want you to die
so please hear us and when your turn
comes take the jab
and we'll be joined live on the
programme by solani henry at 7 30
this morning yeah looking forward to
that now police in london are appealing
for help in tracing a teenager who has
been missing
for a week richie lucoro gayle who's 19
was last seen leaving his home in west
london
his family say the student had been
struggling to cope
with university container ships have
started sailing through the suez canal
again after a stranded vessel blocking
it for nearly a week was finally freed
the trap ever given caused long delays
as hundreds of ships are waiting to pass
through the canal which links the
mediterranean to the red sea
experts say the backlog will take days
to clear
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest
with bbc news